What are mutual funds?
A mutual fund is an SEC-registered open-end investment company that pools money from many investors. It invests the money in stocks, bonds, short-term money-market instruments, other securities or assets, or some combination of these investments. The combined holdings the mutual fund owns are known as its portfolio, which is managed by an SEC-registered investment adviser. Each mutual fund share represents an investor’s part ownership of the mutual fund’s portfolio and the gains and losses the portfolio generates. Investors in mutual funds buy their shares from, and sell/redeem their shares to, the mutual funds themselves or through investment professionals like brokers or investment advisers.

Why do people buy mutual funds?
Mutual funds are a popular choice among investors because they generally offer the following features:

Professional Management. Mutual funds are managed by investment advisers who are registered with the SEC.
Diversification. Mutual funds may invest in a range of companies and industries rather than investing in one specific stock or bond. This helps to lower your risk if one company fails.
Low Minimum Investment. Many mutual funds set a relatively low dollar amount for initial investment and subsequent purchases.
Liquidity. Mutual fund investors can readily sell their shares back to the fund at the next calculated net asset value (NAV) – on any business day – minus any redemption fees.
How do I earn money from mutual funds?
Investors can make money from their mutual fund investments in three ways:

Dividend Payments. A fund may earn income from its portfolio –  for example, dividends on stock or interest on bonds. The fund then pays the shareholders nearly all the income, less expenses, as a dividend payment.
Capital Gains Distributions. The price of the securities a fund owns may increase. When a fund sells a security that has increased in price, the fund has a capital gain. At the end of the year, the fund distributes these capital gains, minus any capital losses, to investors.
Increased Net Asset Value (NAV). If the market value of a fund’s portfolio increases, after deducting expenses and liabilities, then the NAV of the fund and its shares increases. With respect to dividend payments and capital gains distributions, mutual funds usually will give investors a choice. The mutual fund can transfer the amount to the investor, or the investor can have the dividends or distributions reinvested in the mutual fund to buy more shares.
What are the risks of investing in mutual funds?
Mutual funds are not guaranteed or insured by the FDIC or any other government agency. They therefore all carry some level of risk. You may lose some or all of the money you invest because the investments held by a fund can go down in value. Dividends or interest payments may also change as market conditions change.    

A fund’s past performance is not as important as you might think because past performance does not predict future returns. But past performance can tell you how volatile or stable a fund has been over a period of time. The more volatile the fund, the higher the investment risk.

Different funds have different risks and rewards depending on their investment objectives. Generally, the higher the potential return, the higher the risk of loss.